Enhance `predict` API to serve for env validation purpose. (#10759)
mlflow/mlflow: docs/source/deployment/index.rst

FAQ
---

How to test my model before deploying to the production environment?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Testing your model before deployment is a critical step to ensure production readiness.
MLflow provides a few ways to test your model locally, either in a virtual environment or a Docker container.

Testing offline prediction with a virtual environment
*****************************************************

> You can use MLflow `predict` API via CLI or Python to making test predictions with your model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use `mlflow models predict` API via CLI or Python to making test predictions with your model.
```

Perhaps it's just me, but `predict` API sounds ambiguous. Can we use the full command name?

Author: Makes sense to me, will replace:)

> This wiill load your model from the model URI, create a virtual environemnt with the model dependencies (defined in MLflow Model),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will load your model from the model URI, create a virtual environment with the model dependencies (defined in MLflow Model),
```

and run offline predictions with the model.
Please refer to :py:func:`mlflow.models.predict` or `CLI reference <../cli.html#mlflow-models>`_ for more detailed usage for the `predict` API.

.. tabs::

    .. code-tab:: bash

        mlflow models predict -m runs:/<run_id>/model-i <input_path>

    .. code-tab:: python

        import mlflow

>         mlflow.model.predict(

Reviewer 2: This should be `mlflow.models` instead of `mlflow.model`

            model_uri="runs:/<run_id>/model",
            input_data=<input_data>,
        )

> Using the `predict` API is convenient for testing your model and inference environment as being a relatively light weight and quick.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using the `predict` API is convenient for testing your model and inference environment quickly.
```

************************************************************
If you want to test your model with actually running the online inference server, you can use MLflow `serve` API.
This will create a virtual environment with your model and dependencies, similarly to the `predict` API, but will start the inference server
and expose the REST endpoints. Then you can send a test request and validate the response.
Please refer to `CLI reference <../cli.html#mlflow-models>`_ for more detailed usage for the `serve` API.

.. code-block:: bash

    mlflow models serve -m runs:/<run_id>/model -p <port>

    # In another terminal
    curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
        --data '{"inputs": [[1, 2], [3, 4]]}' \
        http://localhost:<port>/invocations

While this is reliable way to test your model before deployment, one caveat is that virtual environment doesn't absorb the OS level differences
between your machine and the production environment. For example, if you are using Windows as a local dev machine but your deployment target is
running on Linux, you may encounter some issues that are not reproducible in the virtual environment.

> In this case, you can use Docker container to test your model.

Reviewer 2: I don't think you can run Windows docker containers on Linux machines, right?

Author: Right but this one talks about Linux on Windows (which I think much more common the the other)

Reviewer 2: I think we're positioning Docker as a general solution for cross-OS testing, which isn't always true. Should we clarify?

Author: True, will add some clarification that Docker is not designed for full cross-OS capability while being a light weight testing option for some cases.

iterate multiple times to find the correct solution. Instead, you can use the `predict` API to test your change without
actually mutating the model.

To do so, use the `pip-requirements-override` option to specify pip dependencies like `opencv-python==4.8.0`.

.. tabs::

    .. code-tab:: bash

        mlflow models predict \
            -m runs:/<run_id>/model \
            -i <input_path> \
            --pip-requirements-override opencv-python==4.8.0

    .. code-tab:: python

        import mlflow

        mlflow.model.predict(
            model_uri="runs:/<run_id>/model",
            input_data=<input_data>,
            pip_requirements="opencv-python==4.8.0",
        )

The specified dependencies will be installed to the virtual environment in addition to (or instead of) the dependencies
defined in the model metadata. Since this doesn't mutate the model, you can iterate quickly and safely to find the correct dependencies.

3. Update the model metadata
****************************
Once you find the correct dependencies, you can create a new model with the correct dependencies.

> To do so, specify either `pip_requirements` or `extra_pip_requirements` option when logging the model.

Reviewer 2: Specifying `pip_requirements` will get rid of the other requirements that MLflow infers, right? I think users always want `extra_pip_requirements` to solve missing dependency issues.

.. code:: python

    import mlflow

    mlflow.pyfunc.log_model(
        artifact_path="model",
        python_model=python_model,
        # If you want to define all dependencies from scratch, use `pip_requirements` option.
        # Both options also accept a path to a pip requirements file e.g. requirements.txt.
        extra_pip_requirements=["opencv-python==4.8.0"],
    )

.. note::

    Alternatively, you can directly update the model metadata stored in the artifact storage. For example, `<path-to-model>/requirements.txt`
    defines pip dependencies to be installed for serving your model (or `<path-to-model>/conda.yaml` if you use conda as a package manager).

>     However, this approach is not recommended because this is error-prone and also you need to do this for every model version.

Reviewer 2: I don't think it's error prone if we give users good code to do this. Can we provide a snippet here? Maybe this deserves its own API (good to track with a follow-up JIRA).

Author: Ahh sorry here I mean manual file editting e.g. ssh&vi, let me rephrase it. Agree with having programatic way is good so will create a follow-up JIRA!
